When using our equation to predict nap enjoyment, we find that there's cases where using nose isn't enough. We found that Tom has a nose of 1 unit, and has a Nap Smile of 2.75, but Jane also has a nose of 1 unit, yet has a Nap Smile of 3.5. 

Since we also found that ear length has some correlation with nap enjoyment, let's use both nose tip and ear length to predict nap smile.

Just like with nose tip, we also have an ear length of 1 unit, 2 units, and 3 units

<<<
How can we represent a Data Measurement of a cat person in terms of both nose tip and ear length? We'll use a 2-dimensional coordinate space.

If we rotate our ear length number line by 90 degrees and put it next to our nose tip number line, we get a coordinate plane where we can represent each cat person using both nose tip and ear length as axes.

Now, how can we add together the Nose Tip and Ear Length Data Measurements to describe a Cat Person? 

Let's say we're taking measurements of a cat person named Tom. To describe him, we start at the origin point. We find that his nose tip is 1 unit, so we move from the origin to (1,0). Then we find his ears are 1 unit long, so we move up from (1,0) to (1,1).

<<<
These arrows that formed a path of step-by-step instructions are called Vectors, which are defined by a length, and a direction. You can place them between two coordinate points, from a tail point to a head point. 

We'll use vectors to tell us where we go from one coordinate point to another, and by how much. To add vectors together, we just move the tail of one vector to the head of another.

Because unlike the coordinate points, which are permanently fixed where they are, the vectors can be moved anywhere in coordinate space. 

This vector is the SAME one that's been moved here, or here. But it is not the same as this vector, or this one.

Since the vectors can be moved, it seems like there's no fixed association between a vector and a Data Measurement. But for the ease of demonstration, we'll informally say there is to help us get a high-level understanding of how vectors add features together.

<<<
Looking back at our example with Tom, we'll represent our vectors using matrix brackets, whose values describe the head of a vector, with its tail on the origin.

We'll show that adding these two features together is the same as adding the two vectors pointing to these features.

When a vector's tail is on the origin, this vector points to the same Data Measurement as point (1,0). So far, we have this Data Measurement as a partial Data Measurement.

When you add it to the vector going up to (0, 1), (noting that this partial Data Measurement from [0,1] is not what's actually on point [1,1])

it's as if you're given an instruction to add the partial Data Measurement on [1, 0] with the partial Data Measurement on [0, 1].

Therefore, Tom is on vector [1,1]. You can get to Tom either by the path of these two added vectors, or by the vector pointing to [1,1].

Because this combination of nose tip and ear length describes our cat people input, we call this 2D coordinate space our Input Space.



