in first vid, present as 2nd toy project. like a game.

first few examples are populated by AI? is that even possible?

Eg) twitchPlaysPokemon or r/place canvas create a story together, and get the AI to draw a pic of this by prompt

on stream, have viewers contribute ideas, and you respond to them. follow the threads. have people vote on them.

this can be used as both a game and a tool, but you market it as a game. fun for creating decentralized projects, just like r/place canvas.

the difference with this is that it's not a one time game, but something that stays permanent (unless you delete it). But it's similar to these traditional games like:
https://www.group-games.com/stationary-games/team-story-game.html

search abilities to find who contributed to that specific part

occassionally use it on stream

the issue is that these blocks are not chronological. so you can have different types of edges and blocks. are you building a story chronologically, or randomly throwing out ideas?

besides games, you can also do any kind of project for fun. it's very casual. most of it is just living in imagination. but the idea of the app is to connect all these things together in a way that people can search them easily. which is harder when you have to put in research to gather things that are seemingly disconnected.

<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
before marketing this tool, let it 'naturally arise' during stream. use this tool to organize audience's contributions to a world, a product, or something else. start simple, then build upon it.

so the NEED comes first before the product. the need starts as a casual game. then the product can evolve to meet other needs.

the main need is when people have a bunch of ideas that they don't have time or skills to build upon, but just want to throw them out there. others can search for them. AI can recommend them. It can recommend two ideas that are doing something similar and connect people.

so say you want to write a story and want an artist. an artist can look up an existing story and draw it. this creates a new layer.

issue is- competing layers. what if yours is buried while other's is propped up? perhaps AI with friendly anime/realistic faces will continue yours. so at least someone responds. and more AI join in (if you want) on a thread layer. each layer is like its own universe in a multiverse.

there's also coding AI. if you suggest a product, the AI throws in some rudimentary starting points, like a GUI, for you. a bunch of AI do it in multiple layers.

or a game. games take a while to build. and have bugs. throwing more and more stuff on there will create more bugs. it's not a good project when it's so casual. you need DEDICATED people to be careful and clean things and understand how everything fits together so you don't get inconsistencies, which leads to bugs.

so this is not just an advertisting board to get projects built for your ideas.
two types of projects: dedicated (find a team like co-op and build it; team comes and goes, unless you really make it work) and casual

git push suggestions- a new layer is created, but not merged unless accepted.

on stream, say all ideas are interesting- be neutral. but select one of out many to follow. 'i dont have time to read all of these, but if you put them on here, someone will read them'

<<<<<<<
on stream:
showcase primitive versions of idea blocks
have many partial projects