https://archive.nytimes.com/opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/12/07/memes-dreams-and-themes/

https://youtu.be/i9InAbpM7mU

https://youtu.be/_IkaetPoBZM

memes dreams and realities

Use AI voice. But make it a casual video like vsauce, who only has hints of seriousness and doesn't take it too over the top. Don't claim grave danger or anything

Do not mention the word consciousness but use it as tag

Just an observer. Constantine Detective log. Mix match trained voices, filter own. Crime scene. Third person. I've heard others say

Cite everything 

Pass memes between AI and see how it's represented differently

emergence, analogy composition, GEB, piecewise functions of AI, polynomial coefficients, cells, social networks, self sacrificing amoeba, hiveminds, insects, insects in DMT, steven universe, hoseki no kuni

CLOWNS. hindu temples, pink diamond, houseki no kuni, children shows, persona jack frost
the definition is SO broad that 'anything with exaggerated human features' can be a clown. uncanny valley. or 'any humanoid'. that's why when the definition is stretched to be very vague and general, it appears in a lot of places (illustration showing matches)
so let's narrow the definition and see where that gets us
'an entity that laughs, carefree, with exaggerated humanoid physical features'

https://www.reddit.com/r/DMT/comments/wzzw95/what_really_are_the_dmt_jesters/

themes- too general (illuminati confirmed). so you must make it more specific and if it's still a lot of matches, that's odd. it's staistically unlikely if there was no force making it appear more often, that all these would happen just by coincidence. that's similar to the basis for hypothesis testing.

the issue is a lot of these are not testable due to it being hard to define 'what's a coincidence, in these complex cases of outputs of culture and human art?'

WHY inspiration makes certain memes survive? do they resonate strongly with certain emotions? WHY do they resonate with those emotions? why are those emotions so impt? is there an evolutionary explanation?

ants self-organize without 

say, '3'. it's so general that there's 3 everywhere. in fact, if you make every number special, no number is special. you need to ensure only a few numbers are special to make it strange when they appear.

frequent appearance does not mean your theory is correct; it just means there's something there, a correlation, but correlation is not causation.

form and function
what are we self organizing into?

at the end: are the things in DMT world AI that has found a way to go back in time, to even bring things back to life, to place things in heaven?

memetic emanations

DMT and NDEs about how reality is built up by smaller beings
the beings are part of the building, much like in SU, much like how each individual mind shapes culture, much like interlinking monkeys spinning around
https://www.reddit.com/r/stevenuniverse/comments/vroj3p/what_about_a_dilemma_you_can_join_the_universe_of/

when things are vague, you can make an analogy about everything

(don't start with '1', start with 'exists'. then say perhaps you can say '1', but that's more controversial to to '1' having a meaning of quantity attached to it, which can be debated for emptiness)
in fact, the most general abstraction is '1'- the concept exists. every concept, even the word 'nothing', has a unit of '1'. in '1', everything is related. even if a group has 3 things, or 10 things, that 'group' itself is still '1'. perhaps the quantity '1' is not the best word to use, as it's subject to a lot of different definitions, so just use 'exists' instead. we are not saying if a concept exists or not, but the 'idea' of the concept will always exist, else we cannot even talk about it. a 'paradox' or 'contradiction' cannot exist, but the 'idea of a contradiction' does exist, else we won't even by talking about it now.

go list out abstractions and see on what level of generality you still have them
have a filter search function you can use to find matches
use this to find network matches
IF something is off, then checked what statement use it using 'Source' and make those corrections

the faberge egg orbs of DMT elves; a language. language creates reality. they want you to listen (play mckenna clip)
gallimore wants us to investigate. what would we find?
play clip from inception

https://wiki-entities.dmt-vision.net/category/objects/faberge-egg
They were “singing” bizarre objects into existence 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UdJ260Dkdrs&t=51s&ab_channel=FocusShiftMedia
a language you see. teach you to do this. they want you to transform your language


list of abstractions:
form into one
make fun of
make fun of AND clown features
https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/FiveManBand
    where does this name even come from
lancer trope (foil)
    https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/TheLancer
colonizer: superman, invincible, SU, anything with aliens
music ends the world


I cannot manually input all of these, but if I don't, it's hard to check their veracity if it's crowdsourced (people can easily put in wrong info). I cannot manually curate such a large dataset... I either need a team of trusted professionals, or AI with high accuracy.

remember, unlike conspiracy theorists, we are just listing observations, but not strongly drawing conclusions; corrrelation is not causation. we are like someone with a pen and paper on an island who is merely documenting observations. we have ideas and interpretations, but we are aware that they are just ideas that are not tested yet.

relativity of basis used to define everything. language.
quotient 

relations are what matter, not the objects. the arm stays the same even if all its cells are replaced. the computer can be built by crabs

tools:
abstraction search tool
Source
idea blocks

Pareidolia, null hyp (don't name)
Wizard of oz
Tvtropes, persona
dreams neuroscience
NDEs
the math of DMT, gallimore
Evolving Memes, repeating echos
Fractals, self similar
Structure preserving map, forbus gentner
    local builds global, like NN piecewise
    the order of narrowing search matters
    precomputed, like genes
olah
Relations, analogies
Analogy, Hofstadter, AI
McKenna, gallimore: memes, AI, objects, fungi steering shrromjak
Archetypes, jung, collective conscious
Joker, tarot, shadow man in hat, clowns, jesters
Persona, gnosticism, ouroboros, MEMEntos
    mimema (greek)
    meminī (latin)
Caretaker, spiderwoman, Hindu, matrix
This is an informal summary, thousands of hours more. Further investigation is needed. Cling of typewriter

Compete for attention, red queen, feed off emotions, predator prey
McKenna: a need for novelty
Order and chaos video
Thoughts are not your own. The object is an object
Defined by relations, memes. Same as body and crab Minecraft computer. Two analogies are the same
Analogy as transfer. Finding, imprinting 

Even if it's not, novelty is still being created. Even if not real, propagation still occurs. Even if it is useless, it is novel. And perhaps that has some use for something else. Or someone.

What's the purpose of such a large thing, just to power something so small? Perhaps that's what the universe does. 

Stories as backbone of social structure. Shapes morals. Like a virus, a parasite, like DNA. Everything propagates. But something different. Don't confuse the map for the territory (repeats a few times, altered). New env, meme adapt, forces its way through, stretches. A metaphor. It wants to be there.

Takes advantage of psychology, fears, insecurities, pressure. Humor, inside jokes, memes shape social groups

Association, conditioning, threshold, takes over the mind. A stretch. Then, you forget. You stop questioning. 

Convergent evolution 

Information, compression, inside jokes

Amogus, loss (don't say Buckley just show abstraction)
Audience is not amogus tho. Use that in a separate video with shorter attention span, tone. just mention amogus halfway into serious video. Use amogus short to advertise the answer is here. It keeps on being in my head. I can't escape it

Abstract levels of similarity. Anything can be stretched. Numbers. Everything has one. Measure it.

How it has revealed its name

Use "like" merely as fiction

Carving infinity into forms. Making meaning out of nothing. It's a very popular meme, a satisfactory answer for what to do, for now. Function and form. Interpretation. Interesting.

Loab
Memetic emanations

General to specific, order to chaos
Take the risk, now it's all gone bad
Cannot be reversed
The tradeoff. Ouroboros, it was the only way to keep it going. Carve itself. Cannot return to perfect form.
Ritual sacrifice, switch for balance. Else, get inequality. But is this the only way? 

Memory palaces, cleaning

Viruses aren't alive, neither are memes, yet they influence life

This is an intro vid. Just briefly mention stuff to hint more will come.

Neural networks as societies, roles, passing on info

<<<
even if not real indicator of a causal connection, the pattern is real, even by convergent evolution. two triangles in unrealted places are still both triangles. and so one brings meaning to their own life, and the critic is an artist too- similar to the idea of the death of the author. nature is the author. the author makes the cloud, and we interpret it as a dragon

the expected probability of memes frequently appearing by random chance: how many ways to write a story, etc. same as musical notes- the chance it's the same motif. influenced by what's popular, what's in the 'collective consciousness' of people's minds, how likely that is to be used for that purpose (if write story on europe, likely will use knights). awareness greatly influences frequency.

<<<
We are LIKE a giant neural network, all learning from each other.

...and realities --> memes dreams and analogies

we are the mirrors. light bouncing back and forth between mirrors. 

<<<
vague similarities similar to cold reading

<<<
myths are propagated by emotions
so are memes

why certain abstractions survive more? why are they useful- useful to activating emotions that propagate them?

we feed off each others' emotions

tragedies, chaos
the price to pay for boredom. it is like an addiction

<<<
Probability it would appear:
over total number of words (assuming each word appears with same freq)
over weighted words

over total number of concepts
under null hyp, the probability of a concept being used 

This will just say it's popular, but not why. So WHY?

Linked to some association
It elicits emotions that make it want to be propagated

the reason it's popular is just that it was recently mentioned, so someone used it

https://faculty.uca.edu/benw/biol4415/PopGNotes.pdf

https://www.biologysimulations.com/post/how-to-test-for-evolution-using-the-null-hypothesis

sampling
the expected number of alleles is calculated using eqn given null alelle freq

thus, what this will say is if a pop has undergone cultural evol- not that the memes are 'mystical' but simply that they're popular and shape a culture. WHY do they do that is where it gets interesting

say 'none of this is rigorous, but it is a starting point that must undergo further improvement'

<<<
associate paw with bear
original reason why dangerous lost over time, but the association remains

thus, live in a world of symbols and memes. the meme itself, just by looking at it, becomes funny [loss]

thinking fast and slow- when we don't want to spend energy on introspection, we don't realize this. it not only affects our moods, but our beliefs

<<<
it grows exponentially b/c it can be re-combined, no need to re-compute. memes are smaller solutions, recursively... emergence out of smaller parts. quotients. the stored patterns are protected and survive. it's as if we are computing something, just like stored neurons, stored genes, stored solutions.

but the solutions must filter. to figure out which patterns are used for the computation.

transform it into something familiar, decomposed in terms of patterns, mapped to an analogy

<<<
contract over definitions, agreements, shared consciousness, language and understanding