SCENE 2.1:

To show why neural networks use matrix multiplication, let’s start with an example where in the future, cat people roam the world. Some evidence suggests that how many times naps a cat person takes a day...
    cat faces pop in

    one of them in sleeping. zoom in to make them be the only one on screen as the zzz play

... can be predicted by measuring how far away their nose tips are from the center of their face. We call this measurement, 'Nose tip'.
    highlight the nose, scale big then down

For example, many cat people with long nose tips are said to take a lot of naps. We measure how much they naps they take a day using a metric called 'Naps a Day', or just shortened to 'Naps'.
    grow nose, then zzz with smile
    write out Nap 

But we don't know just how proportional nose tips are to taking naps. For example, how many naps does a cat person with a nose of size 3 take, compared to a cat person with a nose of size 2? Just one more nap, or two more naps? Does this relationship grow linearly, or in some other way, like exponentially?
    show: nose_tip - ? -> Enjoy Naps
    nose of size 2 -> happy ?
    nose of size 3 -> how much happier ???

We're going to have to figure this out by using a neural network that takes in a cat person's nose tip as input, and predicts the number of naps they take a day.
    make these appear in input and output nodes

<<<
SCENE 2.2: 

Let's start with the input to this neural network. We can measure nose tips using 1 unit of nose tip, which is a basic measuring unit, just like using 1 meter to measure distance, or using 1 second to measure time.
    nose tip word fades on top
    on right: first fade in meter, then fade out and fadein time.

Let's measure the nose tip along a coordinate line. We can make a nose tip of 1 unit twice as big to get a nose tip of 2 units, or make it three times as big to get a nose tip of 3 units.
    fade in the number line, then shift

The numbers on the coordinate line are called coordinate points, and each nose tip of a different quantity is on a different coordinate point along the coordinate line.
    show nose tip 1, 2, 3 all at once

<<<
Now there's another concept we can add to the coordinate line, and that's an arrow that's defined between two coordinate points, from a tail point to a head point. This arrow, called a vector, is defined by a length, and whether it points in a left or right direction.
    show it growing from tail to head

There's an important distinction we have to make here; unlike the coordinate points, which are permanently fixed where they are, the vectors can be moved along the coordinate line. 

This right-facing vector of length 1 is the SAME right-facing vector of length 1 that's been moved here, or here. But it is not the same as this right-facing vector of length 2, or this left-facing vector of length 1.

In this context, the purpose of the vectors is to show how much of a difference there is between two coordinate points, and whether one is more, or less, than another.
    how much states vector of 2, more / less changes direction

Because each coordinate point is mapped to a different nose tip quantity, the vectors also measure the differences between two nose tip quantities.
    already appeared on screen?

Think of a vector as a path you can follow from one point to another. 

Because the vectors can be moved, there's no fixed association between a vector and a nose tip quantity. However, when a vector's tail is at coordinate point 0, the origin, the vector of length 1 points to the same quantity as coordinate point 1. So we can informally say that a vector is associated with a quantity, implicitly implying that its tail is on the origin.

(basis- Scale unit 1 to get from the origin to any other point.)

[talk about basis vectors here b/c we want to map them to a building block in Nap, as a measuring unit]