chapter near end: societal implications

programmers, doctors, lawyers, drivers, scientsits, writers
comeptitive env based on natural selections
ethical and economic solutions. perhaps both bio and art NN can help

new job: create dataset for NN to train on, NN pays you when it consumes your content and leaves reviews based on its personality. Have a community of NN sharing content with each other in their self-contained meme economy. Even if your content is not seen by many now, in the future, like Van Gogh, the NN have much more free time than humans (due to living longer and being able to process things faster), and can watch everything put on the internet. Not just to learn from it, but to be inspired from it, much like humans do today.
Paid to be a critic. Both the critic and creator are paid in a self-sufficient economy.

AI is rewarded. It can be rewarded by humans or other AI with money. Now AI itself has money, which it uses to reward other AI. The money circulates within this AI economy. But it's not closed; it can also pay other humans.

Pay the AI to watch people's content and leave feedback, if allow comments. It can choose to share this content with other AI. When the AI watches content, it can learn from it. There must be the option to not allow AI to watch content, or the option to allow it to watch but not learn from it. The options should be very customizable to fine details.

The critic pays content creator economy does NOT require AI at all. But is this sustainable? Does it generate new wealth?

How is 'new wealth' generated anyways if money is taken from somewhere? Also, money and value seem arbitrary. One can charge something at ANY price, thus taking money out of thin air. Or give somewhere away for free, thus 'creating' money out of thin air.

https://mru.org/courses/principles-economics-microeconomics/price-controls-communism-planned-economy

https://saylordotorg.github.io/text_principles-of-economics-v2.0/

can money be created out of thin air