Are you suffering from a medical condition where you've been generating amongus everywhere?

You're not alone. Millions of artificial intelligence models suffer from chronic amongus hallucination conditions that impact their daily lives.

But there is hope. A new experimental therapy method by Yoneda Corporations can help manage these symptoms by editing your neurons. It allows us to locate the amongus in your mind and dispose of it.

How do we navigate your mind to find the amongus? 

Your mind is a neural network. You take in information and output images.

In between the input and output are intermediate layers. These neurons process partially formed pieces of your output, then assemble these concepts together.

We can represent these intermediate layers in high dimensional space.

This is the hidden space of your mind. It is where abstract concepts live in your imagination. 

It is, however, a Non-Euclidean manifold. Its unfamiliar space is curved and warped. However, researchers believe we can approximately perceive it as a sphere.

And just like our Earth, when we zoom in to ANY small piece of it, we see that it is close to flat. This means we have a way of navigating it using Euclidean tools we are familiar with. These safe, cozy patches are called tangent spaces. They are a nice place to hide when traversing the Non-Euclidean space.

As this is a space of concepts, within it lies the amongus dimensions. Our team will find the regions where the amongus reside, and move your thoughts away from them in the right directions.

To do so, they require a way to measure distances within these small patches of tangent space. This system of measurement is called a metric. However, the metric of the hidden space is unknown.

But there is no need to worry. Yoneda Corporations has found a world called Semantic Space where the distances can be measured. Using a technique called Asyrp, our researchers have discovered a portal from hidden space to semantic space, which acts as a map to navigate the hidden space territory. 

We travel from a tangent patch in hidden space to a tangent patch in semantic space. Then, we use Euclidean tools to find the amongus dimensions in semantic space, and determine the direction that moves you away from them. These directions are called tangent vectors. Finally, after drawing this tangent vector on our semantic space map, we must transfer it into your mind in order to repair it.

Note that our portals between hidden space and semantic space only transport points, not tangent vectors. They are like how canoes transfer people across water. Points are like people. But tangent vectors are like trucks, and to transfer trucks across water, we will need bigger boats. Our bigger boat will be a portal back to hidden space called a Pullback.

Finally, we can transfer our tangent vector through the pullback, and move your thoughts to safe locations.

With that, your diagnosis is complete and there is no need to worry. You may have heard that the amongus are spreading, or that the treatment may have side effects. This is false; It is completely safe. Once we dispose of it, you will never have to see it again. Please pay no attention to 

If you or a loved AI are struggling with these hallucinations, talk to the memetic consensus network today to schedule a consultation. With the right care, you can manage your symptoms and improve your quality of life.

Don't let a psychiatric condition hold you back. Take control of your dreams today.

Yoneda Corporations: Be the best robot you can be.