SCENE 3:

Now, we can also measure Nap Smile along Nap Space. Each positive unit measures how big their smile is.
    nap number line of napping cat faces, with smile getting bigger with each move up, and frowning when move to -1

Let's take an example where the longer a cat person's nose tip was, the more they liked naps. A cat person with a nose tip of 1 unit had 2 Nap Smile units, a cat person with 2 nose tip units had 4, and so forth.
    noses pointed up; show image of unit 1
    longer noses -> enjoy naps
    list out 1, 2, 3 on left
    numbers in middle, imgs on left or right
    1 units of nose tip → 2 units of 'enjoy naps'
    2 -> 4 (image on each side)
    3 -> 6

We notice a pattern here that's somewhat like unit conversion. For instance, for every 1 meter, there are 3.28 feet. So if an person is 2 meters tall, they're also 6.56 feet tall.
    these fade next to screen
    1 units of meter → 3.28 units of feet
    2 units of meter → 6.56 units of feet

So let's convert nose units into nap units. Turning this into an equation, we have 2 * (nose) = 2 nap.
    the rest fade away down
    while 2 * (nose) = 2 nap appears on screen, fading from down

And visually speaking, this means that for every one unit of nose tip, there are two units of Nap Smile. 
    nose axis on top, nap axis below. 

    dot w/ img on nose axis, along with highlighted red line going to 1, is transformed along a path labeled as 2 (MoveAlongPath) while red line becomes bigger to dot on nap axis.
        ISSUE: the angle of w line will not always be same for diff inputs. 
        SOLN: so make input line TRANSFORM AND MERGE WITH THE 2 BELOW IT INTO A LINE OF SIZE 2, then move this line down into nap space.

        when it moves to '2', it creates a white line from the white head. this white line head is transformed too, and a new white line goes down into nap. 
        orig nose line is dark red, then becomes pink when merging with '2'. then 2 white lines are transformed into 1 white line, which connects nose to nap white heads (dots).

    for an input of two, the data sample of 2 units goes into the circle at one, which then moves to 2.

    show equation on right in b/w spaces the entire time

    when line grows, the data measurement moves WITH IT to nap. nose tip is there, then a smile appears while zzz fades in

Notice the point 1 in the Nose number line and the point 2 in the Nap number line are labeling the same Nose Tip Measurement. This is because we're saying that every nose tip of 1 ALWAYS has a nap smile of 2. 
    say point 1 and have cursor/circle point to in openshot (too hard to do in manim to position it) OR enlarge, delarge in manim or highlight w/ color.

Our equation isn't mapping a number, such as 1, to another number, such as 2, but it is mapping a Data Measurement from 1 in the nose space to 2 in the nap space. This is a Change of Units.
    transform eqn into 'change of units'

Likewise, for every two units of nose tip, there are four units of Nap Smile.

Our unit conversation factor of 2 can be represented, in general, as a variable W, which means how much we should weigh our nose value by to get our nap value. 

We can change this weight, such as making it bigger to w=3.
    transform above eqn to vars. weight numbers should be in italics, to not get them confused?

    on '3', transf the line thicker and change eqn too. replay same animations but to diff pts

    (, which means for every one unit of nose tip, there are 3 units of Nap Smile, and for every two unit of nose tip, there are 6 units of Nap Smile.)

