SCENE 2.1:

To show why neural networks use matrix multiplication, let’s start with an example where in the future, cat people roam the world. Some evidence suggests that how much a cat person enjoys naps...
    cat faces pop in

    one of them in sleeping. zoom in to make them be the only one on screen as the zzz play

... can be predicted by measuring how far away their nose tips are from the center of their face. We call this measurement, 'Nose tip'.
    highlight the nose, scale big then down

For instance, many cat people with long nose tips are said to enjoy naps. It's always the case that the more a cat person smiles when napping, the more they enjoy it. We measure how much they enjoy naps using a metric called 'Nap Smile', or just shortened to 'Naps'. 
    grow nose, then zzz with smile
    write out Nap 

But we don't know how nose tips exactly affects enjoying naps. How big of a Nap Smile does a cat person with a nose of size 3 have, compared to a cat person with a nose of size 2? A slightly bigger smile, or a much bigger smile? 
    show: nose_tip - ? -> Enjoy Naps
    nose of size 2 -> happy ?
    nose of size 3 -> how much happier ???

We're going to have to figure this out by using a neural network that takes in a cat person's nose tip as input, and predicts their nap enjoyment level.
    make these appear in input and output nodes

<<<
SCENE 2.4: 

Let's start with the input. We're only going to measure nose tip, capturing it into a Data Measurement.
    nose tip word fades on top
    separate nose out from cat person face by moving it to left, showing words 'Data Measurement' vs 'Cat Person'

These are measured using 1 unit of nose tip, which is a basic measuring unit, just like using 1 meter for distance, or using 1 second for time.
    on right: first fade in meter, then fade out and fadein time.

Let's measure along a number line which we'll call the Nose Space, or the Nose Dimension. We can make a nose tip of 1 unit twice as big to get a nose tip of 2 units, or make it three times as big to get 3 units.
    fade in the number line, then shift

    nose space words also appear

Each point in Nose Space is associated with a different Data Measurement.
    show them all at once