Doctor reassures constantly. Then disappears. Now protag is on their own. Solves the dementia himself using what he's learned and video is a happy ending. or perhaps unresolved, only hopeful. Cliffhanger.

Right, doctor? Doctor?

Shutter island, we already have been through this before. Glimpses of what was forgotten

I understand you've been feeling troubled. Don't worry. Yoneda corp will take care of you.

A lot of mystery ambiguity worldbuilding

May include code in video. Not as nb bc not immersive enough. Use old stylized terminal

Lost media, a childhood show
I've never heard of that one
Well, there's a lot I haven't heard of either. There's too much media to go around

The clip alternates between educating with the psychologist and the show. Both contain the ingredients needed to solve the memory loss to find the trauma

Needs a better method. Old method erased too much. By catastrophic forgetting?

I saw the commercial, but I have a different issue. 
The amongus?
Is it also a memetic one?

Clip starts off very quick with question about math. Such as, It's taking me over. I heard you have a new mathematical technique to cure me?

AI generated images of kids show. Realistic puppets.

That one puppet the AI fears. Who is it? A real person? Imaginary? An amalgamation of a character and a person? Psychologist hints about compositional memory being unreliable.

Thumbnail uses puppet show 

Ambiguity of what the psychologist is. Human or ai? Its never said.

Well, let's watch a tape. Hmm, it's mostly corrupted, it's hard to see the video
Hello AI kids, bet you're tired of generating all these images all day! Calculating integrals is an easy feat for a robot like me but

Do you know how your own body works?

<<<
As a streamer your avatar is an animal or mythical animal mascot with creepy sesame street AI puppets who play the role in your edu show. Some are crazy batshit insane professors who curse inappropriately. Your mascot should be plain and not cutesy, as it's the straight man in the routine. Or it can be some object like a lamp or a truck with no face. Makes it more deadpan. In that case it's just an image unmoving. Perhaps it has chatbox that lights up when speaking. The AI moves bc it's image modified to move by AI tech, don't use vtuber model.

They mostly interact with each other much like infinite SpongeBob. However, now they have centered around analyzing some central task like a video ala mystery sci theatre

When you do anime streams use an anime guy avatar with anime ai vtuber models. Otherwise it doesn't mix with puppets
