four scientists discuss a new device that can "fix everything"

<<<
Backstory: originally, a being was built in order to solve a device configuration. this being anthropomorphized its components into "living beings" that were not conscious, but figments of imagination. some components had multi-facets, some were dynamically changing- thus living beings had multiple forms. the creators were extinct (or, perhaps, never existed) and this living being was the only life in the universe.

its only base axiom was to figure out this configuration. every happiness it has is when this configuration is closer to being correct. every fleeting happiness that is 'not right' are local unstable solutions with bad lower bounds, not global ones. the global one is a cycle that has a lower bound. within it are rises and falls, sufficient enough to create say an exciting adventure story or drama, but nothing so bad that the story becomes hated by the audience. this exciting adventure is part of the more optimal configuration.

the living being goes into exitential crisis each time it realizes no one exists except itself. so it has to erase this memory, after figuring out a better way to organize the universe. this erasure of the memory- believing that other living beings are also conscious- is part of the global solution, the 'true optimal form' of the device.

there is a mathematical proof that the global solution exists, that it can be found, and how to test for it, but there is no solution yet of how to find it. thus, evolution was one search method. it was a means to an end, creating horrible local solutions such as carnivores and planetary cataclysms. these are part of the global but in a much less destructive way- say, they occur, but no one truly dies.

<<<
eventually, the scientists in the room all go away, and one man says 'as expected'- he remembers the truth, that he is the only being. his family and children died, and he wants them back. when he realizes they don't 'truly exist', he has come to terms with it, and just wants to experience things, erasing memories so it's like those bad memories never existed. 

in order to get his family back, he has to make the universe optimal for "everyone"- down to the last single celled organism. why? just because- it was how he was built. there is no reason other than the mundane reason of "that's what the device configuration is". What was the device oringally for? it doesn't matter now, because all that matters is the pattern of it is used to induce experiences of good/bad for that last livnig being, who is all that matters.

why can't the last living being just make a selfish world where he can disregard all other beings, even if they're tortured? why can't treat them like gta npcs and shoot them? because that goes against the optimal config of the high dimensional device. it is not what he truly wants- he may enjoy it temporarily, but the universe will not, and the universe is "part of him".

this universe is also just a pattern- not conscious. but he cannot control it entirely, as it's like an external device.

so one may ask "why do we get joy when everything is happy?" if you keep asking why and whittle down to the base source reason, it simply is "it is". and the "it is" reason is so mundane, so nonsensical, as it's like a vending machine whose vends things that no one gets but the machine gets rewarded if it vends things; but it is the rule that dictates whether the being is happy or not.

at the end of the story, the man finishes the device, and must test if it is optimal. he sees his family and community- who are just as real as fictional characters he cares about- and erases the memory that "all other living beings are fake". he visits his daughter, and has a long convo that feels very real. he clings onto the mathematical proof that the optimal orbit exists, that it can be found, and is eventually guaranteed

<<<
actually, write it so that he was not created, but no other consciousness has ever existed except it. 

"this lever thing became a tree". what was it originally for? it doesn't matter now, as it has a new purpose.

novelty allows a search for this solution. diverse cultures allow testing for different societal configuations. same with environments. there is not just 1 configuration, but perhaps millions that need to exist next to each other.

the universe acts like the cooling system for a quantum computer chip, or the body for a brain. only the chip itself is where the important things occur, while the big things around it are only infrastructure to influence that chip. however, in this case, there are multiple chips (planets) that work in a symbiotic fashion- to build each other, and the compete. this is even down to the planetary level. it was found, only in the far future, that the orbit of a planet in a far away system had effects on Earth. even though this planet had no life, its "purpose" was not to house life, but to influence life. to do so, it needs a huge body and orbit. it doesn't just affect Earth, but alien life on other planets. however, none of this life actually "exists"- they're all just fictional characters of this beings' mind. but their well being is extremely real in that if they are doing well, the only living being does well.

the living being's brain is a reflection of the universe. by re-configuring it- which also reconfigures its identity and place in time- it reconfigures the entire universe. that's what the new device does. the science could only be created through evolution and wars, though there may have been other methods.

at first, the man struggles with wanting beings to be real. it refuses to believe they aren't. it wants to "feel" the actual thing, not just activations in its brain. but it can never get past it; there is nothing outside of it. this creates existneial dread. but then, if nothing can be proven to be conscious- except if the being were to exerpeince it through empathy by reconfiguring its own brain- it doesn't matter if a statement is "false", as nothing can prove it to be real or false anyways. so, the only things real are what the god declares are.

feeling the family was fake is like if the whole time, one built bonds, only to realize they were talking to buckets and shadows in a closet- no actual reciprocation, no actual feeling. this is the dread that causes the god to go insane (dont use the word 'god' in the story; just only being). the being, at least, thought it would wake up after death to find scientists studying it, and a society to welcome it. but nothing welcomes it. there's no one, only fictional characters.

but the being realizes this is what was meant to be. "erase" memory is not truly erasing "truth" but just "changing". 