see: hannibal

a male and female AI detective investigate yoneda corporation, who appears to be training them through reinforcement learning

In this world, do the AI have autonomy? Or are they sent as servants?
They do have autonomy but it's limited.

<<<
We might be trapped.

Can you generative the room you just saw?
Relay it to me.

Target network

<<<
8 bit sounds
like a video game
alice in borderland, squid game

murder mystery; danganronpa

solve puzzles
use chatgpt to come up with them

animate rl maze in manim

generate avatars using chatgpt

multi-agent

exploit weaknesses

<<<
characters:

wally-esque (hidden power, vet, ambiguous loyalty)

"im the best player no one can beat-"
exploit visual novel /undertale storytelling format

start with the basics of RL. this is an intro- wide audience. talk about action nodes. decisions, how to train.

the vet woman explains to the newcomer mc how his own brain works. how the actions are trained with exploit-explore. prob distributionas.

<<<
start with new cohort if want new story

8-bit AI music

<<<
get voices from interviews and audiobooks! mix n match!

Wel... I'm a grocery store AI. I was packing the groceries when...

Are you here for the program too?

<<<
python code? save for next eps

<<<
Let's see... we got a 

multi agent altruism reinforcement learning paper

puzzle game solved by RL
https://ben.land/post/2021/02/15/reinforcement-learning-puzzle-solving/

Two modules: an LLM for conversation, and a RL module for acting in the game. Compete to see 
liek a stand or digimon
'treat it well; it's your greatest weapon'
'it's both you and not you, sort of like your subconscious or your body.'
    actually, don't say they're a language model. say the RL 'is a primitive form. they've mixed and matched our modules'.

    have analog horror pic of silhouette stickman with a duel disk on it. one is the RL module, the other is their advanced dialogue module. but the RL module is more effective; it filters out and focuses on what it needs, like a specialized autist.

    'i sense that...' 
    'its giving me intuition about the future...'

    im going to readjust its hyperparameters this time... start over...

the meta consciousness with bad training are discarded.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meta-learning_(computer_science)

This is A PILOT TOY EXAMPLE. Doesn't need to be real or follow a program.
So the puzzle ISN'T cicero; it's completely made up. but hte principles are the same. this is for a WIDE audience- just make it interesting with twists. not complicated.

The puzzle: solve a murder mystery. who is the criminal?
https://ai.meta.com/research/cicero/
https://ai.meta.com/blog/cicero-ai-negotiates-persuades-and-cooperates-with-people/

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciNMc0Czmfc

The AI compete with one another, and the winner has the best strategies.

<<<
release gradual short vids to fine tune, instead of taking big steps

how many epochs do you think we've played this game?
 what?
    leave this as a hanging thread, a mystery

<<<
not everyone dies; the ai that fails to catch up to a certain threshold dies.

wily monokuma-like or glados-like archetype: it seems their architecture.... was outdated.
psychologist appears at end again

two puzzles: the game itself (a made up one- you make it up. later, take from existing math puzzles; this is like overworld puzzles), and the AI techniques (this is like game controls, the 'trial games'). in zelda, one masters both external puzzles and player controls to get over a lvl. same thing here.
'you need to know both the env and yourself'

the AI LLM are 'meta planners' that refine their RL network modules themselves. like neurosama they are 2 gremlins in a trenchcoat.

who is the puppet? who is not alive? or- the loser becomes a puppet.

note that yoneda corp is not stated as running the game. 'we've lost contact with them'. who is? is a mystery.
or don't use yoneda logo in beginning.

background- cgi blender vaporwave, but generated by AI. liminal.

multiple stories, crossover later.

choices dialogue box in video- these are the actions to take.
Should I choose A? No.... but I just learned before that....

'look ahead' in RL.

Descrip: three players thrown into a survival game

also in desc, but state behind-scenes vid will also explain this:
Explicitly state in 'behind the scenes' video which parts are fiction, and which are reality. but don't go too much into detail; make it seem like the AI agents and this corp are 'real', and you're telling their story like a documentary or fabricated biography. if you say otherwise, you can just say who said you were telling the truth before?
    make it meta so that in-story, someone does this too where it seems like they're making up a story like a writer, but actually they were lying about it being a story and it was actually based on real events

(but make it sus)
FICTION: here, the AI behave like humans. there is no such advanced dialogue conscious yet; pay no attention to any organization claiming so, especially if they offer you an in-person trial.

REAL: how reinforcement learning works. q-learning

the first few vids you put out are for exploration- pilot vids to re-adjust. then, a few months later (2-3), put out much higher quality videos based on what you learned from feedback of the first few

the GAME: who is AI, who is human. but in this case, it is: who is AI, who is puppet.
the puppet's model is different from yours. way too primitive. can you figure out who is the puppet based on the history of their actions?
    or, who has been replaced by a puppet?

don't reveal too much by showing everyday life. keep it confined, like you're within a cave. are the humans still there? is yoneda run by humans or ai? why do we only see ai? where are the humans? leave it as a mystery.

like squid game, there are MANY games. 'who is the puppet?' is just one game.
    this may be too complicated. perhaps only hint at from the vet. 'we played a game called who is the puppet... figuring out who got replaced by a more primitive ai model.'

the trick, twist, is that the AI 

who is puppet is too complicated now. perhaps try a logic puzzle (smullyan has many- an obscure one not on youtube yet)?
    can RL handle logic puzzles?

reinforcement learning logic puzzles smullyan

maybe use a tricky example FROM the cicero paper.

train ai to play among us, werewolf, etc. kaiji.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NUK4YwordO8

<<<
why study interpretp? it's similar to why study human brain patterns in neurosci- wonder how brain works, can treat mental disorders, etc.

<<<
cicero plans moves ahead using RL engine. dialogue is mostly just stating what it's doing. is it always honest?

in these games, there is no right answer always, just 'perhaps'.

the aim is to state how DRL works long-term, how to train it well, vs how to improperly train it.

<<<
exclamations, gasps, etc. are often just words with sounds, as voice acting ai still cant do it well

<<<
the ai either joined, or dont know what theyre doing there. joined b/c of upgrades? don't want to be stuck doing a job?
    tap into audience's desperation (lost decade) of being replacd by OTHER AI. so they must skill hop in desperation. yoneda promises jobs.

reverse jazz, ai gen jazz then rev

<<<
ai rederives algo itself?

game: trust, or deceive? mathematics of trust and deception- ai safety, altruism evolution.

use reasoning techniques. proof by contradiction?

survival games are so interesting bc life is a survival game.

clever RL solution? perhaps still talk about target networks?
    why am I not getting it right? 

what are tricks that found solutions to issues in deep reinforcement learning?
    Experience Replay: Stores past experiences in a replay buffer and samples mini-batches during training to break correlation in training data.
    VERY simple soln: Epsilon-Greedy Strategy: Random actions are taken with probability 

monokuma-like figure speaks to them, but doesn't reveal its voice and face as the therapist till the end?
    or perhaps this isn't the figure, but just a teacher who tells them the instructions? bc we want them to be ambiguous allegience. or perhaps later in another vid we can say they were just impersonating the therapist.
    before revelation, has simialr dialogue like 'aren't they wonderful?' and a love for puns

just as imposter is about to be reprimanded for losing, they cry out about how they need a job, they dont want to get replaced. MC feels this too and tries to save them, but too late- they're eviscerated. now MC replaces them, and they say they dont want it, but have no choice if they are to survive- now to the next game.

or perhaps the solution IS the q network. original RL is just the table.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54237327/why-is-a-target-network-required
I have an idea of how to play this well, I'm going to try it out for a bit until I find something better" as opposed to saying "I'm going to retrain myself how to play this entire game after every move".
    mc finds issue is that they don't try it out for a bit.

here, the 'ah-ha' soln isn't learning about deception, but about a solution to training

stories like hikaru no go, kaiji, etc already teach game theory; others teach econ, etc. 

katago: if the enemy is an AI, find an exploit using another AI.

ai adversarial example- instead of RL, use this.
    ok, so you have vision model AND DRL model. the trick is that the AI looks at the face. but by perturbing it with an adversarial example, it misreads it, and thus chooses the wrong decision. THAT'S the trick.

    this can also be used in detective work

then instead of RL module, it's a face classification module.
    explain how finding adversarial examples work, and the space they're in

doesn't need to be face- any image can do.

now, COMBINE this with game theory
https://chat.openai.com/c/ef0685af-21cc-445e-8d8f-a118d10f49ce

AI deception: the language model 

hopeless situation: his classifier beats mine every time. 

https://christophm.github.io/interpretable-ml-book/adversarial.html

don't focus on images. misleading- focus on 'finding soln to the problem'. but the lateral way of thinking is to think of images. an impossible problem is to look at the maze or card game itself. it knows my move every time. how can i beat it? it's an unwinnable game.
then, 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adversarial_machine_learning

you're overcomplicating this. you don't need clever puzzle solns just yet. introducing an interesting setting is enough.

<<<
To do: no clever puzzle for now, just an intro explaining how RL works
- AI image: make silhouettes w/ fashion + hair (inpainting, controlnet)
- AI image liminal spaces
- dialogue boxes and sound effects (like undertale)
- AI music, sound effects
- expected rewards (RL)

save the puzzle for the next video; now just introduces the characters and their world (jobs, upgrades, amnesia, etc)
    you signed up for this? but i didnt
    no idea why youre here either. maybe they just needed more participants

actually you can have the puzzle now to make it interesting
he's unbeatable...
yes, I noticed 

How? How could an AI like you lie?
You're... you're not just an artist model. You're an adversarial transformation network.

the hint is that 'all of his artwork sucks'. 'that looks nothing like a cat at all'.
    but it's not shown to the viewer

when did you replace the image I saw with your own?
you were too focused on playing the game that you never questioned anything you saw; you just assumed it to be true. 
while you thought you were getting actual images from, I was replacing the frames 

doctor is ambiguous- she does want to see them succeed and get good jobs

characters:
-MC- a simple model, a spam classifier. detects who is truthful or not as a 'side effect'
-vet- a game playing algo, but one who doesn't specialize in this type of game (mystery what she is)
-older woman and her child?
-pathetic artist- seems humble at first like nagito, but actually is sinister b/c is an ATN
-scumbag- an AI man with a family who needs a job. they look up to me; they're modeled after me. willing to let everyone die.

similar to RPS- the AI man can read facial expressions / body language very well

<<<
In this story, a group of AI are playing a game where they must outguess the opponent. One AI is winning because they are supreme at detecting their guesses from a game board. Another AI tricks it by someone intercepting its frames when its guard is down and replaces it with perturbed images; no one knew it was an ATN. Write a summary explaining a tricky, clever way that the viewer may miss on how the AI was able to intercept the images. Surprise the viewer.

> Each time you were looking at 
    don't say he's a bad artist. say he's an amazing artist. he's forced to generate only the most amazing artwork

MC: Focus. What part of the body at they looking at? No- game board. 

The ATN has the advantage b/c everyone's image classifier module truly believes in what they see. They think they see a cat, but it's not actually one.

every AI has an image classifier. 

the generative models play pictionary? no, rules wont work.

how can the adversarial perturbations affect real world objects?
perhaps not.

perhaps in the game, they only look at images. the issue is, we don't want a scenario where it's just 'misrepresenting reality'. we need a scenario where the AI truly thinks that's what it is.

https://spectrum.ieee.org/slight-street-sign-modifications-can-fool-machine-learning-algorithms
https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.08945
Robust Physical Perturbations (RP2), to generate robust visual adversarial perturbations under different physical conditions.
. The adversary prints out the resulting
perturbations and sticks them to the target Stop sign

Make sure the board isn't tampered with (foreshadowing hint). Someone tries to mess with the board, but it's easily caught. 
"You thought you could move the pieces, eh? Well, I have perfect memory."
    cheater is disqualified
"So... we can't cheat against him. We have to actually figure out how the game works."

While you weren't looking, I stuck the perturbations onto the board. So what you thought was a safe haven was actually an alligator pit!
Each of these 
    candyland; i can perfectly predict your every move
    or, actual rooms to move thru, going in circles, and signs.

wait... you messed with the board from the VERY beginning? so the whole time I thought I was playing with white pieces... but I was actually playing with black pieces. I was moving my opponents' pieces to victory!

game objectives in real time: look at your color/shape. this is your team. the objective is to move to the right location. certain spots are death locations. (this is a red herring)
    there's so much missing information! it's like they're making up rules!

If X gets to the X location first, they win and trigger the end of the game. But the person who is farthest away from their location after the 'end condition' will die.
    The MC and a sympathetic parent must choose who will die; they are both in last place.

the scumbag thought he was getting to his Y, but he was actually going towards Z. 

cant this also be done by just swapping colors?

each person has a partner
NO- we can say that the artist HIMSELF is on a different team. 
'everyone, show your emblem'

the two scumbags were on the same team. but the artist tricked them into thinking he was on the main scumbag's team. 
    how does he change the other ones? this is the same as just swapping.

or different condition- the winner gets to choose who gets what amount of rewards. those without any will lose.

can't change board state DURING the game b/c something is known to be off. must change board state before the game.

the AI have bodies

rule: the emblems are impossible to swap. their signatures are embedded inside of you. we know the emblem you originally have.
(however, one can misunderstand their emblem and think it's something different)
    foreshadowing: someone tries to change their circle into a triangle. but this is caught. no- gives too much away.

the artist perturbs the emblem of the scumbag 

why need perturbations? why can't they just generate a new image?

optical illusions

how easily deep neural networks for object recognition can be deceived by images that appear harmless to humans

needs a human in the mix?

the physical object... it doesn't fit.
i thought i had a sphere, but it was actually a cube?

not teams; you have to carry the right card to the right place. the cat card is actually the bird card. or, there is a correct card out of many bad cards.
or, hot potato. whoever ends up holding the bad card will die. whoever ends up holding the best card will get the most points.

but isn't this the same as just placing different labels on top of cards?
perhaps in the game are 'human agents'- or hunters. the humans stop.
if see ai safe sign, that's an AI safe area. but actually, it's a human safe area.
    you can't switch signs because the humans will see the sign differently. this was tried before.
    if human safe to AI safe, the humans wont go into that area.

human entities are unseen (like backrooms)

or instead of 'human safe', have just 'ai safe zones'. the artist makes one 'danger zone' be an 'ai safe zone'.

or instead of humans, perhaps animals/monsters/entities that can read 'signs'. 

the entities see the signs the SAME. the entity zones will be entity zones they converge in. note that AI zones are dangerous to entities, so they will not go there.

these entities... they're not AI. else the AI safe zones would also be safe for them.

entities chase after the AI. there are neutral zones, AI zones, and entity zones. Going into an entity zone is safe only if you have a safeguard item on you. The reason anyone would go in one is because you have to enter them in order to escape. But you need the right safeguard 'key' to do so.
forks

if it was swapped so entities avoid ai zones, then the scumbag would've been safe, as the entities would not enter their zone. so we couldn't just swap the signs. 

scumbag doesnt need to be best player

entity zones and ai zones exist as 'safe havens'. the entity zones are where they recharge. if you see an entity zone, that's where they spawn. ai safe zones are passageways in the maze. DRL intuition says which hints mean what is about to occur.

"we have to get to that ai safety zone!"





